Final Fantasy 4 was the first Final
Fantasy to be released on the 16-bit
Super Nintendo twice as powerful as the
original Nintendo or nez the snares
known as the Super thermicon in Japan
offered top-of-the-range graphics and
sound in home video gaming entertainment
three months after its initial release
an easier version of the game dubbed a
final fantasy for easy type was made for
the same console which was essentially
the same game but less challenging Final
Fantasy for easy type was then
translated localized and even renamed to
Final Fantasy two for the American
market since then the game has been
ported to the wonderswan color the
PlayStation 1 and the game boy advance
more recently the game has been remade
for the first time for the Nintendo DS
which was released in japan in December
2007 the story follows the Dark Knight
Cecil commander of the Red Wings an
airship fleet sissel begins to question
the orders from his king and is
subsequently stripped of his title and
position it doesn't take long for settle
to work out that evil is afoot and so he
embarks on an adventure to restore peace
to the world Final Fantasy 4 was a
defining game for this series a true
landmark and it featured many of the
series firsts the logo has become the
series logo to be reused with every
mainstream installment on a different
background the introduction music called
the prelude whilst heard in the first
three games is played to its entirety
for the first time here the most
defining innovation of Final Fantasy 4
was the atb system or the active Time
battle system that would be used in the
majority of the mainstream titles to
follow in the atb system time and froze
continuously during the battle with
enemy and character actions requiring a
certain amount of time to execute since
the clock ticks even while deciding the
characters actions or casting a spell
time and attacks or using magic to auto
times flow is critical
the ATP system was a revolutionary way
to keep battles exciting and involving
whilst also adding strategic depth fun
fancy for had its share of unique
vehicles from hovercrafts to airship
that could travel to the moon and back
chocobos also come in multiple formats
here there's the standard yellow
land-bound bird and the new black flying
version also a first Sid marks and
appearance of a playable character here
once again here's an engineer who comes
to the players aid on limitless
occasions Muhammad is once again found
as a summon spell for the Summoner video
moving away from the previous games
where players could choose the classes
of their characters Final Fantasy 4 and
set character classes for each character
these could not be changed with the
exception of Cecil who is upgraded from
Dark Knight to paladin as a story
progresses other playable characters
include cane at the Dragoon rows of the
White Mage sit at the engineer video the
Summoner teller the sage Edward at the
bard yang the monk palam and porum the
twin Wizards edge the ninja and foo so
yer who is also a sage
you
once again the third installment of the
saga series to be released on the
nintendo gameboy was renamed to Final
Fantasy legend to increase the sales as
usual for this reason alone you
mentioned the game before moving on
you